releases: upgrade for v9.0 (#358)
inveniosoftware/docs-invenio-rdm: docs/releases/upgrading/upgrade-v9.0.md

# Upgrade to InvenioRDM v9
invenio-cli packages update 9.0.1
```

These commands should take care of locking the dependencies for v9 and installing them.

### Updating Configuration Variables

To enable the new communities feature you have to remove from your config or set `COMMUNITIES_ENABLED` to `True`.

If you are using password-based login you have to add this configuration variable for backwards compatibility:

```python
SECURITY_PASSWORD_SINGLE_HASH = ['pbkdf2_sha512']
```

### Update styling

Because of a refactoring to make styling and theming easier, you need to update the following files:

`{{project_shortname}}/assets/less/site/globals/site.overrides`

``` diff
- @import "@less/invenio_app_rdm/theme";
```

`{{project_shortname}}/assets/less/site/globals/site.variables`

```diff
- @import "@less/invenio_app_rdm/variables";
```

`{{project_shortname}}/assets/less/theme.config`

```diff
/* Path to theme packages */
- @themesFolder : 'themes';
+ @themesFolder : '~semantic-ui-less/themes';

...

@siteFolder : '../../less/site';
+ @imagesFolder : '../../images';

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please take into account the changes made in the theming, including variable names and overall theme re-structurisation, if you had any customisations done based on the old structure, your styling might need to be updated,

...
```

/*******************************
         Import Theme
*******************************/

- @import (multiple) "~semantic-ui-less/theme.less";
+ @import (multiple) "themes/rdm/theme.less";
```

You can afterwards build the instance assets:

```bash
invenio-cli assets build
```

### Data Migration

> You first need to first fix an issue with the database versioning table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to inconsistency in database versioning table, you should start the data migration with:
```

```bash
# Change entry in alembic versions table
pipenv run invenio shell -c "from invenio_db import db; db.session.execute(\"UPDATE alembic_version SET version_num ='f701a32e6fbe' WHERE version_num='f261e5ee8743'\"); db.session.commit()"
```

Now you can run the database schema upgrade, add new fixtures and perform the records data migration:
```bash
# Perform the database migration
pipenv run invenio alembic upgrade

# Add new fixtures
pipenv run invenio rdm-records fixtures

# Run data migration script
pipenv run invenio shell $(find $(pipenv --venv)/lib/*/site-packages/invenio_app_rdm -name migrate_8_0_to_9_0.py)
```

### Elasticsearch

The last required step is the migration of Elasticsearch indices, to add all the new communities features.

```bash
pipenv run invenio index delete "communitymembers-*" --yes-i-know

> pipenv run invenio index delete "request_events-*" --yes-i-know

Reviewer: will this work if someone had index prefix defined in the config ?
